In this lecture, you will learn how to avoid methods.
In previous lesson, we have created with method that is called keto email confirmation.
And now we are going to assume that we need to mock the email verification series and we need to start
this email confirmation method with exception.
All right, so let's go back to our test class and I will create a new test.
Meant it.
I will be testing this same creed you cemented for a use case when email invocation exceptions drone
then my method and the test create user throws user service exemption instead and add a short display
name.
Something like email notification exception is handbook.
And we'll start with the orange section in the orange section.
I will stop save method and I will simply make it return to.
When user repository object is used to call save method to persist any object of user class, then my
saved method should return and boolean value.
True.
Now if I use this same approach to stamp void method, then it will not compile.
Let's try.
To use email verification service.
I will first need to inject it into my test class and I will scroll up and will create one more variable
and it is going to be email verification service and I want to mock it so that I do not use a real implementation.
So now that I have created this mock object, it will be injected when an instance of user service implementation
object is created.
Now let's go down to our test method and I'm going to use an instance of email verification service
to call the queue email confirmation minute.
The schedule email confirmation method accepts user object.
So I will use a name and then will provide a user class.
Okay.
So this line already does not compile and this is because this email confirmation method is avoid these
two expressions when then through and when then return.
They do not work with both methods.
So instead of using when then through I will need to use do throw when inside of the true I'll need
to specify exception.
They want to be thrown.
Let's assume that we want to throw email edification.
Service exemption.
This is a new exception cause we're going to create it in just a moment.
And inside of when we will specify an instance of more compute, in our case, it is email verification
service.
Let's also put it on a new line.
And now I can invoke the void method that I want to stop with this expression.
Scahill email confirmation and this method accepts use an object so I will use any user class like this
and I'll also put it on a new line.
All right.
So if we read this expression left to right, then it says, do throw email education.
Serious exception.
One email verification serious mock object is used to invoke key your email confirmation method with
any object of user class.
Okay.
So now if this Google email confirmation meant that these invoked, it should throw an exception and
we can verify if our method under test can successfully handle this exception and throw different exception
that we need.
So let's do that.
First, I will create email notification service exception.
So inside of service package show create a new class.
I'll call it email and vacation service exemption.
I'll make it extend grant an exception will create constructor.
Don't accept message and we'll call super with this message.
Okay.
So now we have a custom exception that we can throw and I can delete this finally.
So now let's invoke our method under test.
I can copy and paste this line and I can add assertion that my method under test throws correct exception.
I'm expecting you to throw use a service exemption.
And that will add an optional element such.
Our renamed as section to and insert and below.
I can add one more assertion to verify that the scheme email confirmation method was invoked exactly
one time.
Like this.
And now I can run my test method and see if it works.
Let's try.
And it works very well.
All right.
So now you know how to use more compute to start with methods with an exception.
Let's continue.